- So let's now go to Postman tool
and test out the three cases that we have.
So I'm going to create a new request.
Let's say http://localhost8080/hplus/thatsrest
and then we have login user,
that's the service that we want to test.
So let's go back to the ID and confirm that we
are accessing the correct URL pattern.
Yeah, that's the one.
Now we'll first test the success case,
which will give us a response of everything is okay,
and then let's test the other ones.
So this will change to post, of course.
And then we have to send a request body,
this is a post request,
which means the information that you want to send
along with the service will go in the body.
So I'm just going to click on body, select a row,
and select application Jason as the format of the data
in the request body.
So let's provide a Jason, the Jason will look like this.
It will have two fields,
username: that is admin,
and then you have password, admin again.
That's the Jason that is going to go in the request body
when the service gets invoked via a post request.
Let's find out how this works,
let's click consent and we see that
the status is okay.
It was an okay request, which means it went to
the repository against the database,
checked everything, everything was okay.
But if you also want some descriptive response
given back to the client,
you can also include a string saying that
welcome admin.
So let's quickly also do that.
We have here we can include welcome,
and then
user.getusername
and then the next parameter is okay.
So you can do this.
So let's quickly build this.
So it is built well,
let's go back to Postman and hit that request again
with exactly the same credentials for a success case.
So this time, you will have your response back there
on your Postman tool.
So now, both the status and the response is something
that you, as a developer, can control.
Let's check the other case.
I am going to test out the case where
the user can't be found.
So no user.
No.
This user does not exist in the database at all.
So let's hit this and see what happens.
Here, so you see, there we got 404 now.
And this is the correct response that you're trying
to get the client,
so that the client is aware that this user never existed
in the system.
Additionally we can also have a good string response
coming back,
so let's go to the IDE and instead of this,
you can actually return a similar kind of
return from line 31.
Let's come back here, line 27.
I'm pasting it on line 27, commenting like 26,
and this is just another way of trying to send 404
back to the client.
So sometimes you just want to send a 404 instead of just
trying to have a descriptive message.
So it is up to the application design,
it is up to how you design your restful services,
what kind of strategy you have decided
in order to get the response back to the client.
Everything depends on that.
But line 26 was coded just to show you that
this is another way of getting 404 back to the client.
So I'm just going to say,
just put a message saying
user not found.
Let's build this.
So just a point to be noted here is that
generally the consumers of these rest services
are nothing but other applications,
and these are mostly consumed by the developers
in their code.
So it could be an Ajax request,
or it could be another Java application.
So just returning 404 is enough sometimes,
but it's always better to even attach
some description with it.
So let's go ahead and hit that request again,
and this time you'll get a user not found
along with the status code as 200,
and I think we made a mistake there,
because this one was not supposed to be okay.
It was supposed to be not found.
That's the one.
Let's build this again and make sure that we have the
status code correctly in the client response.
So let's hit that again, and this time you have 404
and you have a description also
stating that the user was not found.
The last case is where you have the correct user name,
let's say, and the wrong password.
Let's see how this behaves.
Right, so the exception handling worked perfectly for us.
It gave us a result of 403,
which was the forbidden status code that we responded.
And also a message attached to it, which actually was
extracted from our exception object.
So what happened here is that when we through this,
it went to the application exception handler
and it responded with a forbidden status code
along with the message that came in with the exception.
So this was an additional point that we wanted to ensure
that we look at.
In exception handler you also can grab the exception object
that was thrown.
So this is it, this is how you can design your basic
restful end points in Spring MVC Application.
Of course Spring has a very big module
called Spring Rest, where you can do even more stuff
with designing and development of restful services.
But these are just the basics of restful endpoints
that we wanted to show as a part of Spring MVC course.